# Fulfillment Application Design Document

1. Fulfillment of sales orders (including basic picking and packing) and receiving of purchase orders
2. Inventory management including issuance and receipt, and inventory reservation for sales orders

## [Store Fulfillment Lifecycle](https://docs.hotwax.co/documents/v/learn-hotwax-oms/business-process-models/store.fulfillment)


Order fulfillment is 3 step process,

### Step 1: 
The staff gets the list of Outstanding orders 
*   Search in "ORDER" solr document, look for 
  * facilityId, item approved, shipmentMethod, fulfillmentStatus is NULL


  * The user then starts the fulfillment process for set of orders by creating a [Fulfillment wave of orders](createOrderFulfillmentWave.md). A [PickList](../oms/createPickList) is returned for the user to go pick items for preparing the shipments.
     *  Background process: [Shipments](../oms/createShipment.md) are created for orders.
        - If the order item is a kit product, a distinct reservation will be created with the same order item for each product in the kit. When creating a picklist and shipment, all reservations will be included to ensure a proper fulfillment lifecycle.

Alternativley the user can choose to not proceed with picking and instead choose the following actions:

  *  The user can choose to [rejectOrderItems](rejectOrderItems.md) if for some reason orderItem cannot be fulfilled.
  *  The user can choose to [cancelOrderItem](cancelOrderItem.md) on request of the customer or Customer Service Rep (CSR).

### Step 2: 
User completes the [Packing](packShipment.md). Alternatively user can choose to edit autogenerated Shipment.
  *  [rejectShipmentItem](rejectShipmentItem.md).
  *  Add [ShipmentPackage](../oms/createShipmentPackage.md)
  *  Move ShipmentItems between packages.
  *  Activate gift card.
  *  After edits [packShipment](packShipment.md).
  *  [getShippingLabel](getShippingLabel.md).

### Step 3:
User marks Shipment shipped.
  * reprint shipping label and other documents
  * [voidShipmentLabel](voidShipmentLabel.md) and request it again.


## [Shipment lifecycle](../oms/ShipmentStatusWorkflow.md)
Shipment is created in SHIPMENT_INPUT, then SHIPMENT_APPROVED to SHIPMENT_PACKED and then SHIPMENT_SHIPPED

### [On SHIPMENT_APPROVED:](approveShipment.md)
* If the facility is part of the `AUTO_SHIPPING_LABEL` facility group. The service calls [getShippingLabel](getShippingLabel.md) from the logistics company.
  * On successful execution of shipping label RateShopping, update ShipmentRouteSegment. Set `shipmentMethodTypeId`, `carrierPartyId`, `actualCost`, `carrierServiceStatusId` (SHRSCS_CONFIRMED). 

* Once we have Shipping label, Shipment can be moved to SHIPMENT_PACKED status.
  * If `isTrackingRequired` is set to **N** in the ProductStoreShipmentMeth entity for the given Shipment Method, then the user can pack the shipment without a shipping label or tracking code.

### On SHIPMENT_PACKED:
* Ship (Handover in case of BOPIS) the Shipment moves Shipment status to Shipped
* [Get shipping label](getShippingLabel.md) if auto shipping label is disabled at the facility and label is not already fetched.

### On SHIPMENT_SHIPPED:
* [createOrderShipmentInventoryIssuance](createOrderShipmentInventoryIssuance.md)
* Order Item is marked Completed
* Update Shopify order Fulfilled

**Modify contents of the Shipment after it is already SHIPMENT_APPROVED or SHIPMENT_PACKED.**
Why does the shipment have to be moved out of "approved" status to edit it's contents? For example fulfillment team may want to reject an item after begining pack pick process, in which case shipment will already be packed.

-   To pack a Shipment, we need shipping label. To give shipping label, shipping carrier need to know the package dimensions and weight.
-   Approving the shipment means communicates that the shipment is now ready for packing, and package type and weight are now final.


1. If the Approved shipment should be edited, The Shipment is first [reinitializeShipment](reinitializeShipment.md).To avoid error, the reinitialize process calls [voidShipmentLabel](voidShipmentLabel.md).
2. In case the Packed shipment should be edited, first [reinitializeShipment](reinitializeShipment.md). It moves shipment from SHIPMENT_PACKED status to SHIPMENT_INPUT, ensure to [voidShipmentPackageLabel](voidShipmentPackageLabel.md). Recompute the [ShipmentPackageWeight](calcShipmentPackageTotalWeight.md).

```
    <!-- ShipmentRouteSegment CarrierService status -->
    <StatusType description="ShipmentRouteSegment:CarrierService" hasTable="N"  statusTypeId="SHPRTSG_CS_STATUS"/>
    <StatusItem description="Not Started" sequenceId="01" statusCode="NOT_STARTED" statusId="SHRSCS_NOT_STARTED" statusTypeId="SHPRTSG_CS_STATUS"/>
    <StatusItem description="Confirmed" sequenceId="02" statusCode="CONFIRMED" statusId="SHRSCS_CONFIRMED" statusTypeId="SHPRTSG_CS_STATUS"/>
    <StatusItem description="Accepted" sequenceId="03" statusCode="ACCEPTED" statusId="SHRSCS_ACCEPTED" statusTypeId="SHPRTSG_CS_STATUS"/>
    <StatusItem description="Voided" sequenceId="08" statusCode="VOIDED" statusId="SHRSCS_VOIDED" statusTypeId="SHPRTSG_CS_STATUS"/>
    <StatusValidChange statusId="SHRSCS_NOT_STARTED" statusIdTo="SHRSCS_CONFIRMED" transitionName="Confirm"/>
    <StatusValidChange statusId="SHRSCS_CONFIRMED" statusIdTo="SHRSCS_ACCEPTED" transitionName="Accept"/>
    <StatusValidChange statusId="SHRSCS_CONFIRMED" statusIdTo="SHRSCS_VOIDED" transitionName="Void"/>
    <StatusValidChange statusId="SHRSCS_ACCEPTED" statusIdTo="SHRSCS_VOIDED" transitionName="Void"/>
```

## HotWax Commerce Shipment 


### [Setting up a New Shipping Carrier](https://github.com/saastechacademy/foundation/blob/main/ofbiz-framework/intermediate/setupShippingCarrier.md)

### Pre-Requisits, NOT included in Fulfillment App. 
1) Setup Facility with Locations
2) Setup Product and Inventory configurations
3) Import product inventory
4) Import Orders 
5) Setup Fulfillment user roles and responsibilities.
6) Each Facility has list of Shipping Carriers and may be billing accounts with carrier. 

### Fulfillment App
1) PickList and Picking
2) Shipment lifecycle
   * Outgoing Shipment
   * Incoming Shipment
3) Shipping Gateway configuration
4) Inventory physical cycle count


***Shipping Gateway configuration***
1) [Shipping Carrier](/ofbiz-framework/intermediate/setupShippingCarrier.md)


## UAT

### List of scenarios to test createOrderFulfillmentWave
*   PickList is created, the list of assigned Pickers reconciles with the request
*   The number of unique shipGroupSeqId reconciles with the number of Shipments created.
*   The number records for each orderId and ShipmentId combination in OrderShipment table reconciles with ShipmentItems

### Ships together scenario
### Digital Goods shipment
### Physical Gift card shipment
### Marketing material and bonus material

### Scenarios 
*   Update shipTo Postal address after shipment is created. The shipping address should be first updated on OrderItemShipGroup and then update the address on Shipment.
  * Update contactMechId on OrderItemShipGroup
  * Update destinationContactMechId on Shipment
  * Update destContactMechId on ShipmentRouteSegment
*   Update shipTo Telecom number after shipment is created. The shipping Telecom should be first updated on OrderItemShipGroup and then update the Telecom on Shipment.
  * Update telecomContactMechId on OrderItemShipGroup
  * Update destinationTelecomNumberId on Shipment
  * Update destTelecomNumberId on ShipmentRouteSegment

## Questions 
1.  Why do we reset carrierPartyId and shipmentMethodTypeId on reinitializeShipment method? Both these fields are HC custom.
2.  What if OrderItemShipGrp has shipment carrier partyId and shipment method set, Do we rate shop or not? What business scenarios are related to this? 
3.  What if during Shipment processing, we may have to get ShippingLabel. In this case we can skip the rate shopping step, Read carrrier Party and shipmentMethodTypeId from the ShipmentRouteSegment entity.
4.  Are we honoring the shipmentMethodType suggested by brokering engine? Brokering engine evaluates distance between fulfillment location and deliver location, if the distance is within the range of ZONE 2, Brokering engine suggests ShipmentMethodType. The Rate shopping process should include the suggested shipmentMethodType.

## [Inventory Management](inventoryManagementProcess.md)

## Transfer Order

The advice for moving inventory from one storage facility to other. It helps manage the workflow. 
The TO is an OrderType like SalesOrder and PurchaseOrder. 
The API for to [createTransferOrder](createTransferOrder.md) builds on the [createOrder](../oms/createOrder.md)
An inventory storage location may receive [InTransferShipment](createInTransferShipment.md) or ship [OutTransferShipment](createOutTransferShipment.md) for a transfer order. 

### Scenarios
The Transfer Orders will facilitate movement of inventory between locations, the scenarios being:
1. TOs where Fulfillment location is managed by OMS and Receiving location is managed by third party e.g. Store to Warehouse
2. TOs where Fulfillment location is managed by third party and Receiving location is managed by OMS e.g. Warehouse to Store
3. TOs where both Fulfillment and Receiving locations are managed by OMS e.g. Store to Store

### Design
1. The Create Transfer Orders request to OMS will include an indicator like a **statusFlowId** on the basis of which OMS can decide whether the Transfer Order
should be only fulfilled in OMS or only received in OMS or should be both fulfilled and received in OMS.
2. This statusFlowId indicator will help in correctly transitioning the Transfer Order Item status and hence facilitate the transfer order 
fulfillment and receiving as required in the system.
3. The statusFlowId will be managed at OrderHeader level and new Order Item status and Status Flow Transitions will be added to manage the life cycle 
of Transfer Order.

#### Valid Status for Transfer Orders

Two new Order Item Status will be introduced to manage the lifecycle of Transfer Orders which are PENDING_FULFILLMENT and PENDING_RECEIPT.

1. Order Header - Transfer Order
   1. Created
   2. Approved
   3. Completed
   4. Cancelled
   
2. Order Item - Transfer Order Item
   1. Created
   2. **Pending Fulfillment - newly introduced**
   3. **Pending Receipt - newly introduced**
   4. Completed
   5. Cancelled

**NOTE** Here the item will not transition to APPROVED status since in the Approve TO process, the next possible status could be either 
Pending Fulfillment or Pending Receipt based on the statusFlowId.

##### New Status Items 
```
<moqui.basic.StatusItem statusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" statusTypeId="ORDER_ITEM_STATUS" statusCode="PENDING_FULFILLMENT" description="Pending Fulfillment"/>

<moqui.basic.StatusItem statusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" statusTypeId="ORDER_ITEM_STATUS" statusCode="PENDING_RECEIPT" description="Pending Receipt"/>
```

##### New Status Flow and transitions
1. **Transfer Orders Pending Fulfillment**
```
<!-- Status Flow for Transfer Orders Store to Warehouse -->
<moqui.basic.StatusFlow statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfill" description="Status transitions for Transfer Orders where Fulfillment is managed by OMS and Receiving is managed by 3rd party e.g. Store to Warehouse"/>

<!-- Status Transitions for Transfer Orders Store to Warehouse -->
<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfill" statusId="ITEM_CREATED" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" transitionSequence="1" transitionName="Approve & Pending Fulfillment Item"/>

<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfill" statusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" toStatusId="ITEM_COMPLETED" transitionSequence="2" transitionName="Complete Item"/>
```

2. **Transfer Orders Pending Receipt**
```
<!-- Status Flow for Transfer Orders Warehouse to Store -->
<moqui.basic.StatusFlow statusFlowId="TO_PendingReceive" description="Status transitions for Transfer Orders where Fulfillment is managed by 3rd party and Receiving is managed by OMS e.g. Warehouse to Store"/>

<!-- Status Transitions for Transfer Orders Warehouse to Store -->
<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingReceive" statusId="ITEM_CREATED" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" transitionSequence="1" transitionName="Approve & Pending Receipt Item"/>

<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingReceive" statusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" toStatusId="ITEM_COMPLETED" transitionSequence="2" transitionName="Complete Item"/>
```

3. **Transfer Orders Pending Fulfillment & Receipt**
```
<!-- Status Flow for Transfer Orders Store to Store -->
<moqui.basic.StatusFlow statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfillAndReceive" description="Status transitions for Transfer Orders where both Fulfillment and Receiving is managed by OMS e.g. Store to Store"/>

<!-- Status Transitions for Transfer Orders Store to Store -->
<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfillAndReceive" statusId="ITEM_CREATED" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" transitionSequence="1" transitionName="Approve & Pending Fulfillment Item"/>

<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfillAndReceive" statusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" transitionSequence="2" transitionName="Pending Receipt Item"/>

<moqui.basic.StatusFlowTransition statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfillAndReceive" statusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" toStatusId="ITEM_COMPLETED" transitionSequence="3" transitionName="Complete Item"/>

```

#### Transfer Order Life cycle

1. **TOs where Fulfillment location is managed by OMS and Receiving location is managed by third party e.g. Store to Warehouse**
   1. statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfill"
   2. Flow
      1. TO Created in OMS
         1. TO and TO Items in CREATED status
      2. TO Approval
         1. TO updated from status CREATED to APPROVED
         2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_CREATED" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" transitionSequence="1" transitionName="Approve & Pending Fulfillment Item"
         3. Here item reservations should happen in approval since fulfillment in OMS.
      3. TO Fulfillment
         1. TO updated from status APPROVED to COMPLETED
         2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" toStatusId="ITEM_COMPLETED" transitionSequence="2" transitionName="Complete Item" 
      

2. **TOs where Fulfillment location is managed by third party and Receiving location is managed by OMS e.g. Warehouse to Store**
   1. statusFlowId="TO_PendingReceive"
   2. Flow
       1. TO Created in OMS
           1. TO and TO Items in CREATED status
       2. TO Approval
           1. TO updated from status CREATED to APPROVED
           2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_CREATED" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" transitionSequence="1" transitionName="Approve & Pending Receipt Item"
           3. Here No item reservations should happen in approval since only receiving in OMS.
       3. TO Receiving
           1. TO updated from status APPROVED to COMPLETED
           2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" toStatusId="ITEM_COMPLETED" transitionSequence="2" transitionName="Complete Item"


3. **TOs where both Fulfillment and Receiving locations are managed by OMS e.g. Store to Store**
   1. statusFlowId="TO_PendingFulfillAndReceive"
   2. Flow
       1. TO Created in OMS
           1. TO and TO Items in CREATED status
       2. TO Approval
           1. TO updated from status CREATED to APPROVED
           2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_CREATED" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" transitionSequence="1" transitionName="Approve & Pending Fulfillment Item"
           3. Here item reservations should happen in approval since fulfillment in OMS.
       3. TO Fulfillment
          1. TO should still be in APPROVED status
          2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_PENDING_FULFILLMENT" toStatusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" transitionSequence="2" transitionName="Pending Receipt Item" 
      4. TO Receiving
            1. TO updated from status APPROVED to COMPLETED
            2. TO Item: statusId="ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT" toStatusId="ITEM_COMPLETED" transitionSequence="3" transitionName="Complete Item"

**NOTE**
1. The Fulfillment App will list all TOs where Order is Approved and Items are Pending Fulfillment so that they are eligible to be shipped in OMS.
2. The Receiving App will list all TOs where Order is Approved and Items are Pending Receipt so that they are eligible to be received in OMS.
3. Since the TO items could be partially received, so to identify if the item is completely received and should be marked as completed; 
in the Receiving App, the option “Receive and Close” will be used which should send the toStatusId as COMPLETED and for partial receiving, the option 
"Receive" will be used which will send the toStatusId as ITEM_PENDING_RECEIPT.
4. When all the TO items will be COMPLETED, the TO should be marked as COMPLETED.
5. The apps will use the statusFlowId to correctly send the statusId and toStatusId type info, and the application layer will validate
the status transitions and perform the required updates.

#### Receiving unexpected items in a TO

- While receiving a TO, if a new unexpected item is received, the system allows the addition of new item to the TO while receiving.
- The new Order item should be created in the Pending Receipt status, and then further receiving updates should happen.

### Approve Transfer Order

1. Once the TOs are imported in OMS in Created Status, the approval flow for TOs should run.
2. The [approveTransferOrder](approveTransferOrder.md) service will handle approval of Created TOs in the system.
3. The Order Header status will be updated from CREATED to APPROVED.
4. For the Order Item, the OH.statusFlowId will be used to update the status of the item to the next possible status. 
5. The item status will be updated from CREATED to either PENDING_FULFILL or PENDING_RECEIVE, we do not need APPROVED order item status here in the item lifecycle. 
6. The StatusFlowTransition.transitionSequence will be used to identify the next possible status for each statusFlowId, the first transactionSequence is the required one.
7. Item Reservations should happen only when item status transition is being done to PENDING_FULFILL.

**TODO** TO Cancellation
1. scenarios of TO cancellation

## Receive Shipment

**Shipment Receiver briefly reviews incoming shipment.**
* If shipment received is a return (has RMA# or Return ID), 
* If shipment received is for a purchase order (has PO#), Shipment Receiver finds the PO corresponding to the items received and records PO receipt (inventory) quantity.
* If shipment received is for a ASN, shipment receiver finds the Shipment.

**Shipment Receiver reviews incoming items. and Shipment Receiver will receive the shipment even if**
* Shipment Receiver records a higher quantity received than was ordered, inventory reconciliation will report it.
* The product is a different color than what is in the system, Shipment Receiver will received it. inventory reconciliation will report it.
* The product that arrives is not the product on the PO or already been received.
