# Solr Cloud

SolrCloud is a distributed search platform built on top of Apache Solr, designed to provide scalability, fault tolerance, and centralized configuration management. It enables you to deploy Solr across a cluster of machines, distributing indexes and queries for high availability and performance. 

### **Key components include** 

- **Cores** : Cores are fundamental units in Solr, representing individual indexes. Each core handles indexing and searching operations for a specific set of data. It contains configuration files, index data, and other resources necessary for search functionality. A core in Solr represents a separate index with its own configuration and schema.

- **Collections** : Collections are logical groupings of cores managed together as a single unit within SolrCloud. They allow for scalability and distributed search capabilities. Collections can span multiple Solr nodes and are typically used to partition data across multiple cores for efficient processing.

- **Sharding** : Refers to a subset of a larger index. When an index becomes too large to handle on a single server, it is divided into smaller, more manageable pieces called shards. Each shard contains a portion of the index's data and can be stored on a separate server or node within a SolrCloud cluster. Sharding helps improve performance, scalability, and fault tolerance by distributing the index across multiple servers, allowing for parallel processing of queries and better resource utilization.

- **Solr Nodes** : Solr nodes are individual instances of the Solr server running on separate machines within a SolrCloud cluster. Each Solr node manages one or more collections of indexed data and handles search requests from clients. Solr nodes communicate with each other and with ZooKeeper for cluster coordination, ensuring that the search index remains consistent across the cluster.

- **ZooKeeper** : ZooKeeper is a centralized service for maintaining configuration information, providing distributed synchronization, and managing cluster state for distributed systems like SolrCloud. In a SolrCloud deployment, ZooKeeper manages cluster coordination tasks such as leader election, shard allocation, and tracking the status of individual Solr nodes. It stores metadata about collections, shards, and replicas, enabling Solr nodes to dynamically join or leave the cluster without affecting its availability or data integrity.

- **Replicas** : Replicas in Solr are duplicate copies of a shard's data distributed across nodes for fault tolerance and high availability. They enable load balancing and parallel query processing in SolrCloud, ensuring resilience against node failures and scaling for large search traffic.

### Launching Solr in SolrCloud Mode

To start Solr in SolrCloud mode, use the following command:
```bash
bin/solr start -e cloud
```
This will start an interactive session that will start 2 solr servers on machine

- `./bin/solr` refers to solr script located in the directory
- `start` means start solr instance
- `-e cloud` starts solr instance in cloud mode
  - In solr cloud mode, a solr cluster consist of multiple solr nodes working together to handle search queries and index updates

Follow up process:

- This will ask *how many Solr nodes would you like to run in your local cluster?*. Press enter to run 2 nodes which is default (Default option is shown in []).
- Now you have to enter ports for both nodes. Press enter to use default port.
- Then you have to enter name of your collection. Enter a name for your collection and press enter
- Then it will ask how many shards you want to create. Go with default [2] and press enter
- Then it will ask how many replicas you want to create. Again go with default.
- Then you have to choose configuration:
  
    **Choosing a Configset for Your Solr Collection**
    When setting up a Solr collection, you'll need to decide on the appropriate configset to use. Solr provides two main options:

    **Default Configset**: The `_default` configset is a minimalist starting point, offering essential configuration files to begin your Solr collection. It's suitable for users who prefer to       build their configurations from scratch or have specific customization needs beyond the provided templates.

    **Specialized Configsets**: Solr also offers specialized configsets tailored to specific scenarios or sample datasets. For example, the `sample_techproducts_configs` configset is optimized for use with the "techproducts" dataset, providing preconfigured settings and schema definitions aligned with this dataset's requirements.
  
     We will see default later, for now just type sample_techproducts_configs to choose this config and press enter

This will start your Solr in SolrCloud Mode. Go to - http://localhost:8983/solr to open admin page.

## Stopping Solr instance

This command stops all running Solr nodes on the local machine:
```bash
bin/solr stop -all
```

Alternatively, you can specify a specific node to stop by providing its port number:
```bash
bin/solr stop -p <port_number>
```
Replace <port_number> with the port number of the Solr instance you want to stop.

## Restart Solr
if you've stopped you need to restart it, follow these steps:

1. Start the first node using the following command:
    ```bash
    ./bin/solr start -c -p 8983 -s example/cloud/node1/solr
    ```
    This command initiates the first node.

2. Once the first node is up and running, proceed to start the second node and specify its connection to ZooKeeper:
    ```bash
    ./bin/solr start -c -p 7574 -s example/cloud/node2/solr -z localhost:9983
