# Understanding Solr Indexing

Solr utilizes an index to efficiently retrieve information from stored documents. This index performs mapping words, terms, or phrases to their respective locations within the documents stored in Solr.

## How Solr Indexing Works?

Solr indexing is the process of adding documents to the Solr search index so that they can be searched and retrieved later. When a document is indexed, Solr analyzes its contents and creates an index that maps each word or term to the documents that contain it. This index is then used to quickly find documents that match a given query.

For example, if you're searching for the term "laptop" Solr looks up this term in its index to quickly find the relevant documents without having to re-read the entire text of each document.

When a document containing 100 words is indexed in Solr, each of the 100 words is indexed separately. This means that there will be 100 separate indexes, each mapping a word to the documents that contain it. This indexing approach allows for precise and efficient search functionality, enabling Solr to quickly retrieve documents based on the terms they contain.

## Indexing Steps

The indexing process typically involves the following steps:

1. **Document Parsing:** Solr reads the documents to be indexed and extracts their contents, which may include text, metadata, and other data.

2. **Analysis:** Solr analyzes the contents of the documents to identify individual terms and phrases, and applies various text processing techniques to normalize and enhance them.

3. **Indexing:** Solr creates an index that maps each term to the documents that contain it, along with information about the term's frequency, position, and other properties.

4. **Committing:** Once the indexing process is complete, Solr commits the changes to the index, making them available for search.


## Fields in Solr Index

Solr uses the concept of fields to organize and index documents. A field represents a specific type of information within a document, such as title, author, or content. Each field in Solr's index contains the indexed information along with additional metadata to facilitate efficient searching and retrieval.

For instance, if you have a document with fields like "title," "author," and "content," Solr will index each field separately, allowing for targeted searches within specific fields.

In summary, Solr's indexing mechanism optimizes search performance by creating a structured index of words, terms, or phrases, enabling quick and efficient retrieval of relevant documents based on user queries.

### Creating a new collection and indexing data

After creating a collection<sup>[3]</sup> you have to index some data into it. 

Note - This doc contains basic information of indexing and searching. The next doc that contain actual exercise for hands on.

You can index sample data using the `bin/post` tool provided by Solr:
```bash
bin/post -c <Your Collection Name> <Path To Document(s)>
```
- Your Collection<sup>[3]</sup> Name: Enter the collection name that you have created previously.
- Path To Document(s) : Give the relative path of the documents in the directory, i.e. relative to the current working directory. Use `/*` to include all the files in a directory.

Use the documents inside the exampledocs directory 

Examples:
1. This command will index various types of documents (JSON, XML, CSV etc.) included in the exampledocs directory.
```bash
bin/post -c techproducts example/exampledocs/*
```
2. This command will index money.xml in exampledocs directory.
```bash
bin/post -c techproducts example/exampledocs/money.xml
```

### Indexing Data Using Solr's API
Indexing data using Solr's API involves sending your information to Solr in request body. You do this by formatting your data and sending it to /update endpoint. Using this endpoint you can add, update and delete documents. Note that you have to commit if you want to make this added document available for searching using by adding `"commit": {}` in the request body.

#### Adding a Single JSON Document
The simplest way to add Documents via JSON is to send each document individually as a JSON Object, using the /update/json/docs path:

**API**
- **Method:** POST
- **Endpoint:** `http://localhost:8983/solr/{collection_name}/update/json/docs`
- **Content-Type:** `application/json`
- **Request body:**
```json
{
  "id": "1",
  "title": "Doc 1"
}
```

#### Adding Multiple JSON Documents
You can send JSON array of objects to index multiple documents in the same request

**API**
- **Method:** POST
- **Endpoint:** `http://localhost:8983/solr/{collection_name}/update`
- **Content-Type:** `application/json`
- **Request body:**
```json
[
  {
    "id": "1",
    "title": "Doc 1"
  },
  {
    "id": "2",
    "title": "Doc 2"
  }
]
```

#### Sending JSON Update Commands

The JSON update syntax supports all update commands that the XML update handler supports, mapped in a straightforward manner. Multiple commands, such as adding and deleting documents, can be included in a single message.

**Example:**
```json
{
  "add": {
    "doc": {
      "id": "DOC1",
      "my_field": 2.3,
      "my_multivalued_field": [ "aaa", "bbb" ]   
    }
  },
  "add": {
    "commitWithin": 5000, 
    "overwrite": false,  
    "doc": {
      "f1": "v1", 
      "f1": "v2"
    }
  },

  "commit": {},
  "optimize": { "waitSearcher":false },

  "delete": { "id":"ID" },  
  "delete": { "query":"QUERY" } 
}
```
Explanation:
- The add command adds a document with specified fields such as id, my_field, and my_multivalued_field.
- Another add command demonstrates additional options like committing the document within 5 seconds (commitWithin) and not overwriting existing documents (overwrite).
- The commit command commits any pending changes, ensuring they are searchable.
- The optimize command optimizes the index for better performance, with the option to wait for the searcher to be available (waitSearcher).
- The delete command removes documents from the index either by their unique identifier (id) or by a query string (query). For example `"delete": { "query": "field_name:value_to_match" }`



## Alternative to create a collection
You can directly create a collection using this command
```bash
bin/solr create -c <collection name> -s 2 -rf 2
```

- `-s 2` : Means we want to create 2 shards
- `-rf 2`: Specifies replication, 2 in this case

In this command we didn't mention anything about a configset. That's okay though because Solr knows how to handle this. It automatically uses a default configuration set called "_default" when you don't specify one explicitly. This "_default" configset is well-suited for most general use cases, hence its name. So even though we didn't mention it, Solr knows what to do behind the scenes.
