# How to define Schema?

## Solr Schema
In Solr, the schema serves as a crucial blueprint stored in a single XML file, outlining the structure and characteristics of fields and field types that Solr recognizes and manages. Essentially, it's a roadmap for Solr to understand and process data. The schema not only defines the names of fields and field types but also includes instructions on how to preprocess data before indexing it. For instance, if you want variations like "abc" and "ABC" to match when searching, you can specify in the schema to normalize such terms, perhaps by converting them to lowercase during indexing and querying. Additionally, the schema allows for the creation of copy fields, which aggregate data from other fields, and dynamic fields, which are generated based on wildcard patterns.

### Schemaless
In Solr, "schemaless" mode is like having a smart assistant for organizing your data. Instead of you having to tell Solr exactly how to structure your data beforehand, it watches what you're putting in and figures out the best way to organize it on its own. This can save you time and effort when getting started with Solr, especially if you're not sure upfront how your data should be organized. However, if you need precise control over how your data is handled, you might prefer to set up a schema yourself.

In Solr's `_default` configset, two key aspects govern schema handling.

#### 1. Managed Schema
We utilize a "managed schema," which is exclusively modifiable via Solr's Schema API. This prohibits manual edits to maintain clarity regarding the source of schema modifications. The Schema API facilitates adjustments to fields, field types, and other schema rules.

#### 2. Field Guessing
Configured in `solrconfig.xml`, "field guessing" allows Solr to dynamically create fields as it encounters them in documents. This feature enables rapid setup without predefining all expected fields, hence the term "schemaless." However, field guessing has limitations, particularly if it misinterprets data, leading to potential reindexing challenges, especially with large datasets or lost original data access.

While schemaless features offer a quick start, deploying to production without a defined schema is discouraged by the Solr community. It's advised to ensure your schema aligns with indexing and query requirements. 

### Hybrid Approach
Combining schemaless features with a defined schema is possible. By defining essential fields using the Schema API and letting Solr guess less critical ones, you strike a balance between control and flexibility, mitigating potential schema inference issues.

This hybrid approach optimizes schema management, ensuring your Solr setup meets both immediate needs and long-term scalability requirements.


### Defining a Field in Solr
Field guessing can lead to misinterpretation in scenarios where Solr incorrectly assumes the data type of a field. To prevent such misinterpretations and ensure consistent handling of the "name" field as a string, it's advisable to explicitly define it in Solr before indexing the data. This can be achieved using the Schema API or Solr's Admin UI.

In Solr, defining a field involves specifying its characteristics such as data type, whether it can hold multiple values, and if it should be stored for retrieval. This process ensures that Solr interprets and indexes data accurately, preventing misinterpretations and errors during search operations.

#### Using Schema API:

**URL:** `http://localhost:8983/solr/{collection}/schema`

**HTTP Method:** `POST`

**Content Type:** `application/json`

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "add-field": {
    "name": "{field_name}",
    "type": "{field_type}",
    "multiValued": {true/false},
    "stored": {true/false}
  }
}
```

**Solr Field Types:**
- text_general
- string
- int
- long
- float
- double
- date
- boolean

## Copy Field
In Solr, a copy field is a feature that allows you to automatically copy the contents of one or more fields into another field. This is useful for scenarios where you want to search across multiple fields as if they were one.

### Example:

Suppose you have an e-commerce website with product documents containing "title" and "description" fields. You want users to be able to search for products based on both the title and description.

1. **Define Fields:**
   ```xml
   <field name="title" type="text_general" indexed="true" stored="true" />
   <field name="description" type="text_general" indexed="true" stored="true" />
   <field name="content" type="text_general" indexed="true" stored="true" />
   ```
2. **Configure Copy Field:**
   ```xml
   <copyField source="title" dest="content" />
   <copyField source="description" dest="content" />
   ```

Now, when a document is indexed, the content of both the "title" and "description" fields will be automatically copied to the "content" field. This allows users to search for products using keywords from either the title or description, simplifying the search process.

### Creating a "Catchall" Copy Field
Previously, when we queried our indexed documents, we didn't have to specify a specific field to search because our configuration was set up to copy all fields into a text field, which served as the default search field when none was specified.

However, in our current configuration, this rule isn't in place. Consequently, we would need to define a field for every query, which is impractical. Instead, we can establish a "catchall field" by creating a copy field that gathers data from all fields and indexes it into a designated field named `_text_`. Let's proceed with that.

#### Schema API

**Request Method:** POST

**Endpoint:** `http://localhost:8983/solr/films/schema`

**Request Headers:** 
- Content-Type: application/json

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "add-copy-field": {
    "source": "*",
    "dest": "_text_"
  }
}
```
What this action does is duplicate the content of all fields and stores it in the `_text_` field.
